we start this out with the breaking news
the Palestinian militant group Hamas has
said its political leader ishma hir has
been killed in Iran a statement from the
group said he was killed in an Israeli
raid on a house in the Iranian Capital
tan that he was staying in Israel's
military military is not commenting it
said the raid took place after he had
attended the inauguration of the new
Iranian president ishma hir had been
leading negotiations with Israel and his
death is likely to affect any chances of
progress Mass official described the
assassination as a grave escalation that
will not go unpunished one of Ishmael
H's bodyguards is also said to have died
so let's just take a closer look at who
Ishmael hir was born in the ashati
refugee camp in Gaza hir was a key
member of Hamas from its Inception he
was imprisoned by Israel a number of
times including for three years in 1989
as it cracked down on the First
Palestinian Uprising at one point he was
expelled to Southern Lebanon for six
months
in 2003 he survived an assassination
attempt by Israel along with the Hamas
founder shik ahed yastin 3 Years Later
Han was appointed a Palestinian prime
minister by President Mahmud abas after
Hamas won the most seats in national
elections however he was dismissed a
year later after the group outed abbas's
fatter party from the Gaza Strip in a
week of deadly violence kir had led
hamas's political operation since 2017
while living in Exile in katar
he was the public face of hamas's
diplomacy in Arab capitals and was
leading efforts to negotiate a ceasefire
deal in Gaza Han was considered to be
less Hardline and militaristic than Yaya
simoa who is the head of Hamas inside
Gaza well let's get more with our Middle
East correspondent Yulan n who is in
Jerusalem and Hugo Basher who is in
Beirut Yulan to you first what more do
we know about what's
happened well the reports are saying
that this was um an attack an air strike
at about 2:00 in the morning local time
on the residence where Ismael hania was
staying in the Iranian Capital uh he was
killed along with his bodyguard um we
don't have many more details than that
at the moment he'd been in Iran um along
with the leaders of other iran-backed
armed groups from around the region uh
for the swearing in of Iran's new
president they were seen very
prominently at that ceremony and also
meeting the Iranian supreme leader and
there's already been a lot of reaction
to What Happened One Hamas official
calling this a cowardly act saying it
will not go unanswered there have been
others saying that this could lead to a
a dangerous escalation and this killing
really did catch us uh by surprise I
mean it's not being claimed by Israel
when I asked the Israeli military it
said it did not comment on reports in
foreign media
um but this came just hours after Israel
said it had killed um a senior hasbalah
figure in southern Beirut um somebody it
said was responsible for a deadly rocket
strike in the Israeli occupied Goan
Heights the weekend and we'd really been
braced for several days um for Israel's
um retaliation there Hezbollah denying
that it was responsible for carrying out
that strike and it hasn't uh confirmed
the death of any of its leaders um but
already there had been fears that Iran
could be drawn in um if uh there was a
strong response to what uh Israel did in
Beirut um now we've got Iran saying that
its top uh Security Council is
considering its reaction to an
assassination um of this top Hamas
leader on its own soil so this is
another very dangerous moment and what
do you think think this means in the
immediate term for any hostage ceasefire
deal I mean as you were saying is Hu was
seen as being the sort of more pragmatic
more moderate face um of Hamas when
compared to the the hardliners like
Yahya sinir um and Muhammad Dave who
masterminded uh the 7th of October
attacks um still in Gaza um we're not
sure about what's happened uh to
Muhammad de but Yak Sina is believed to
still be in an underground bunker there
now it's very much putting more power uh
in the hands of Yahya sinwell when it
comes to any kind of negotiations on a
new ceasefire and hostage release uh
deal um isil hania had been um really
overseeing those negotiations uh through
mediators he was somebody who'd been
able to to travel around the region uh
still and attend meetings um and it's
not clear at this point who his
successor will be so this um is likely
to be a major setback um for any sort of
uh new deal on a ceasefire and hostage
release and it's not clear at this
moment what it means uh for the course
of the war in Gaza okay you land for now
thank you let's go to Hugo Basher who is
in Beirut uh Hugo what reaction has
there been by Hezbollah another Iranian
proxy there in Lebanon uh given that
this comes just hours after one of
hezbollah's senior leaders was targeted
by
Israel yes amantha so we had two
statements from Hezbollah this morning
one morning uh the uh death of the
killing of Ismael Han in Iran and the
first uh statement was the first
reaction we had from hisbah after the
attack that happened here in Beirut last
night confirming that the senior
Commander fuad shukar was in the
building behind me that was hit in this
Israeli attack so uh this is the scene
here in in southern Beirut this is the
Hezbollah stronghold here in the bayout
capital there is obviously a very uh
strong presence of Hezbollah members
also of the Lebanese military obviously
the streets here have been corned off
and shops are closed uh but streets are
getting busier here with lots of people
coming to the scene uh and obviously
lots of journalists here as well but we
had a very short statement by uh hesah
saying that emergency services are still
searching through the rubble they
confirmed that the senior Commander was
here in the building when this attack
happened last night just before Sunset
but they haven't confirmed that he was
actually killed uh yesterday the Israeli
military said that fuad Shuka was killed
they described this as a precise attack
he said he was a uh the Israeli military
said the senior Commander was a
right-hand man to the uh Hezbollah
leader Hassan nazala and he was also
described as being uh the commander
behind the attack that happened on
Saturday in the occupied Golan Heights
when 12 children were killed and uh the
Israeli authorities uh had uh promised a
response to the attack uh the Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said
Hezbollah would pay a very heavy price
and for days here in Lebanon there was
this wait for for for this uh Israeli
response so it happened last night it
happened here uh in this stronghold
Hezbollah stronghold in southern Beirut
and I think the fact that it happened
here in the Lebanese capital and perhaps
the first time that Hezbollah was
targeted here in Beirut could be seen as
a major provocation by the group we
haven't seen any indication yet about
any kind of plans for a retaliation but
I think it's inevitable that Hezbollah
is going to respond to this attack we've
seen that in the past when senior
commanders were killed by Israel
Hezbollah launched hundreds of rockets
targeting military positions inside uh
Israel so I think a response now is
almost uh inevitable and obviously this
raises fears of the possibility of a of
an escalation in the hostilities between
Hezbollah and Israel so far most of the
violence has been contained to areas
along the border between Lebanon and
Israel tens of thousands of people have
been forced to leave their homes because
of the violence but there has been the
fear that this uh violence uh could
escalate to become something bigger even
though the indications have been that uh
Hezbollah and Israel were trying to
avoid a major confrontation but again as
yolan said this is a very dangerous
moment yeah the Iranian leadership
meeting uh imminently to discuss their
response to to what extent do you think
the Hezbollah response any reaction will
be led by
Iran yeah so Hezbollah is the main group
of these Alliance of factions and forces
across the Middle East supported by Iran
uh the so-called axis of resistance and
I think that there has been this
question uh since uh October the 7th
since uh the attacks by Hamas and then
this response by Hezbollah the level of
influence that Iran has over Hezbollah
and the other factions uh uh uh in this
uh Alliance I think Hezbollah here in
Lebanon is obviously a very powerful
force it's not only a militia but it is
also a political party with
representation in Parliament it is also
a very strong uh social movement here in
Lebanon so it does have uh a level of
Independence it does have uh its own uh
strategy and goals uh but there is some
level of coordination perhaps with the
Iranian authorities and obviously
Hezbollah just like Hamas is considered
a terrorist organization by uh many uh
Western countries including the us
including the UK and there's been the
fear here uh in Lebanon that Hezbollah
could be dragging uh this country into
another conflict with Israel lots of
people remember what happened in 2006
the devastation brought by uh the war
between Israel and Hezbollah there was a
lot of destru ction here in southern
Beirut also in southern Lebanon and uh
many people were concerned that history
might be repeating itself and this is a
very difficult moment for Lebanon for
years the country has been going through
a huge economic crisis uh around 80% of
the population uh estimated to be living
in poverty there's also a political
crisis the the country has been without
a president for almost 2 years so it is
a very difficult situation for Lebanon
uh and many here were concerned again
that Hezbollah was dragging this country
into another conflict okay Hugo for now
thank you